The turbine depicted in files which include simplicity in their names, is a high altitude wind energy system that features a unique design to simplify construction and reduce materials cost. The turbine is mainly constructed from cloth (depicted in blue), with circular steel parts (depicted in red) attached to it. 

The energy transfer system comprises ropes that are tightened around the circular steel parts, which are moved in a circular motion by the spinning turbine. The ropes are made of modern materials such as steel wire ropes or synthetic nano fibers, and move at high speeds due to their binding on the large diameter circular steel parts. The tightness of the ropes is essential to ensure efficient energy transfer from the turbine to the ground-based power generation system.

The system also includes a mechanism consisting of ropes (depicted in violet colour), which can be tightened or loosened by a servomechanism to control the foldability angle of the wheel mechanism and the relationship of the turbine with the alignment sail weight.

To stabilize the turbine, an alignment sail is attached to the wheel mechanism, which helps the construction align with the wind. The cloth blades or sails, have a curved attachment at their base, which allows them to control the airflow and generate a pressure that drives the rotation of the system and provides a pull of the air to the turbine.

The ground-based power generation system comprises five wheels that are driven by the ropes anchored to the circular steel parts at the top of the alignment sail. One wheel transfers the energy from/to the ropes and the generator/motor, while the other 4 are used for bending the ropes without friction, when the ropes are in horizontal position. The axis of the central wheel transfers the energy from the ropes to a generator, which converts the mechanical energy into electricity. The generator can be connected to the power grid or used to charge batteries or other energy storage devices.  

The turbine initiates opposing the wind, with the ropes in horizontal alignment near the ground. The base provides power to the construction through the ropes. The turbine is slightly turned up to provide both elevation and tension to the ropes. As the turbine is elevated, the angle of the ropes and the wheel mechanism with the ground changes, so the ropes which regulate the angle (depicted in violet) can be loosened to allow the turbine to retain the best angle. When the turbine reaches a height where enough power is provided by the wind, the base stops providing power to the ropes. Finally, when the height is such that the construction can withdraw power, the generator starts operating.

To ensure that the structure always faces the wind direction without bending the ropes, the generator and the wheels that take the energy through the ropes are based on a horizontally rotating basement. This horizontal rotation enables the turbine to face the wind direction consistently, increasing the efficiency of energy transfer. 
